Revelation 1:1-9
Christian Identity (Part 1)
Bond-Servants
1
I’m labeling this “part 1” of Christian identity because we definitely won’t cover everything about generic Christian identity tonight.  We’ll largely just focus on things touched on in this first chapter of Revelation.  Such content is useful in general for the Christian life and also understanding Revelation specifically (giving us more of the perspective John wants us to have in mind as we read this book).


Review
The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, - Revelation 1:1 (ESV)

Written by John near the end of 1st century AD while on exile on the island of Patmos

2

Outline of the Book of Revelation
Introduction (1)
Letters to 7 Churches (2-3)
A Scene in Heaven (4)
The Scroll & the Lamb (5)
The 7 Seals (6-8)
The Sealed People of God (7)
The 7 Trumpets (8-11)
The Angel & Little Scroll (10)
The 2 Witnesses (11)
3
The Woman & the Dragon (12)
The Beasts (13)
People of God & People of the Beast (14)
The 7 Plagues (15)
The 7 Bowls of Wrath (16)
Babylon is Fallen (17-18)
A Fourfold Hallelujah (19)
Final Judgment (20)
New Creation (21-22)

Reading
Revelation 1:1-9
4

Question (Revelation 1:1-9)
What does this passage say about our identity,
who we are as Christians?
5

Christian Identity (Revelation 1:1-9)
6
Servants
Loved
Blessed
Freed from sins
Kingdom
Priests
Brothers
Partners in patient endurance
Partners in tribulation
These are the key things I’ve pulled out of these first few verses in Revelation 1.  We’ll spend the rest of the class exploring these topics and what they mean for us.

*Words may slightly vary by translation.  Primarily using ESV here.

(I recognize that I’m using “identity” perhaps somewhat loosely here; but it is worth noticing and exploring all of what this passage says about us as Christians; there’s also perhaps a bit more than what is listed on this slide, though we may wait to future weeks to explore those aspects)


doulos
δοῦλος
This is the Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things which must happen soon, which he sent and made known by his angel to his servant, John, - Revelation 1:1 (WEB)
7
https://biblehub.com/greek/1401.htm

“properly, someone who belongs to another; a bond-slave, without any ownership rights of their own.

Ironically, 1401 /doúlos ("bond-slave") is used with the highest dignity in the NT – namely, of believers who willingly live under Christ's authority as His devoted followers.”


We’re going to start by looking at the “servant” idea.  As mentioned last week, a big point of the message of Revelation is that it was given to show and make known certain things to God’s servants.  We see this in the opening verse.

Some related words:
https://biblehub.com/greek/1396.htm - to enslave, bring under subjection
https://biblehub.com/greek/1397.htm - slavery (only seems to be used in a negative sense in the NT)
https://biblehub.com/greek/1398.htm - to serve as a slave
No one can serve two masters, whom will you serve, slavery in Romans, you are not your own but bought with a price
https://biblehub.com/greek/1399.htm - female slave (the word on the slide seems to be more restricted to male slaves in “common” use)
https://biblehub.com/greek/1402.htm - to enslave, bring under subjection
https://biblehub.com/greek/1210.htm - to tie, bind

Note that this word is different from (https://biblehub.com/greek/1249.htm), even though there may be some overlap.  There are uses of other “servant” words in the NT (https://www.biblegateway.com/quicksearch/?qs_version=WEB&quicksearch=servant&begin=47&end=73&resultspp=250), which we won’t necessarily explicitly cover tonight due to time constraints.  Similarly, there are aspects of “lordship” (i.e. of Christ) that we won’t be able to fully explore tonight.


Revelation 1:1 (Different Translations)
The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, - (ESV)

The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave Him to show to His bond-servants, the things which must soon take place; and He sent and communicated it by His angel to His bond-servant John, - (NASB)

The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave Him to show to His slaves the things which must soon happen; and He indicated this by sending it through His angel to His slave John, - (LSB)
8
On this slide, I have 3 different translations of Revelation 1:1 to show how the Greek word on the previous slide has been translated into different English translations (this seems to cover the scope of all English translations for this word).


“Servant” in the Opening of Other Epistles
Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ… - Romans 1:1 (WEB)

Paul and Timothy, servants of Jesus Christ… - Philippians 1:1 (WEB)

Paul, a servant of God… - Titus 1:1 (WEB)

James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ… - James 1:1 (WEB)

Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ… - 2 Peter 1:1 (WEB)

Jude, a servant of Jesus Christ… - Jude 1:1 (WEB)
9
The notion of Christians as “servants” is fairly common…it appears in the opening of several other NT epistles (letters), though not all of them.  So this is a pretty common mentality among NT authors.


Everyone Serves a Master
Don’t you know that when you present yourselves as servants and obey someone, you are the servants of whomever you obey; whether of sin to death, or of obedience to righteousness? But thanks be to God, that, whereas you were bondservants of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were delivered. Being made free from sin, you became bondservants of righteousness.
I speak in human terms because of the weakness of your flesh, for as you presented your members as servants to uncleanness and to wickedness upon wickedness, even so now present your members as servants to righteousness for sanctification. For when you were servants of sin, you were free from righteousness. What fruit then did you have at that time in the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now, being made free from sin and having become servants of God, you have your fruit of sanctification and the result of eternal life. - Romans 6:16-22 (WEB)
10
The Bible effectively makes the point that everyone serves someone/something - having a “master”.  This Romans 6 passage provides the basic outline, presenting the choice between serving sin or God.

“Obedience” is a key aspect of being a servant:
The centurion answered, “Lord, I’m not worthy for you to come under my roof. Just say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I am also a man under authority, having under myself soldiers. I tell this one, ‘Go,’ and he goes; and tell another, ‘Come,’ and he comes; and tell my servant, ‘Do this,’ and he does it.” - Matthew 8:8-9 (WEB)


Everyone Serves a Master
“No one can serve two masters, for either he will hate the one and love the other, or else he will be devoted to one and despise the other. You can’t serve both God and Mammon. - Matthew 6:24 (WEB)
11
Furthermore, the Bible asserts that one cannot truly serve two masters.


Everyone Serves a Master
12
“Now therefore fear the Lord and serve him in sincerity and in faithfulness. Put away the gods that your fathers served beyond the River and in Egypt, and serve the LORD.
And if it is evil in your eyes to serve the LORD, choose this day whom you will serve, whether the gods your fathers served in the region beyond the River, or the gods of the Amorites in whose land you dwell. But as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD.” - Joshua 24:14-15 (WEB)
Although using a different word due to being in Hebrew (https://biblehub.com/hebrew/5647.htm) rather than Greek, the notion of choosing whom you will serve is essentially a timeless concept.  There’s a somewhat “famous” speech where Joshua exhorts the Israelites to choose whom they will serve, and Joshua asserts that his household will serve the Lord God.


For am I now seeking the favor of men, or of God? Or am I striving to please men? For if I were still pleasing men, I wouldn’t be a servant of Christ. - Galatians 1:10 (WEB)
Servants, be obedient to those who according to the flesh are your masters…as servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart, with good will doing service as to the Lord, and not to men…You masters, do the same things to them, and give up threatening, knowing that he who is both their Master and yours is in heaven... - Ephesians 6:5-9 (WEB)
Servants…whatever you do, work heartily, as for the Lord, and not for men…for you serve the Lord Christ. Masters, give to your servants that which is just and equal, knowing that you also have a Master in heaven. - Colossians 3:22-4:1 (WEB)
The Master of the Christian is God
13
The Bible also points out that, for the Christian, our Master is God.

as free, and not using your freedom for a cloak of wickedness, but as bondservants of God. - 1 Peter 2:16 (WEB)

Even though there are senses in which we should seek the please and serve others, our ultimate Master is God, which we should not forget.


How We Are Bondservants of Christ
Or don’t you know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit who is in you, whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God’s. - 1 Corinthians 6:19-20 (WEB)
Were you called being a bondservant? Don’t let that bother you, but if you get an opportunity to become free, use it. For he who was called in the Lord being a bondservant is the Lord’s free man. Likewise he who was called being free is Christ’s bondservant. You were bought with a price. Don’t become bondservants of men. - 1 Corinthians 7:21-23 (WEB)
14
Now why/how are we “bondservants” of Christ?  Well, 1 Corinthians mentions how we are not our own but instead bought with a price.


How We Are Bondservants of Christ
Take heed, therefore, to yourselves, and to all the flock, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the assembly of the Lord and God which he purchased with his own blood. - Acts 20:28 (WEB)

knowing that you were redeemed, not with corruptible things, with silver or gold, from the useless way of life handed down from your fathers, but with precious blood, as of a lamb without blemish or spot, the blood of Christ, - 1 Peter 1:18-19 (WEB)
15
Some other passages shed more light on exactly “how” we were bought for Christ.

See also:
Matthew 20:28
Romans 3:24-25
Ephesians 1:7
2 Peter 2:1
Revelation 5:9

Reading/Discussion
Matthew 24:45-51
Matthew 25:14-30
Luke 17:7-10
2 Timothy 2:14-26

What are some key aspects of how we should
view our role as servants of God?
16
I want to next take a look at a few passages that may shed a bit more light on some of the mentality we should have as bond-servants of God.

Note that just like Jesus seeking to do the will of His Father in heaven (as articulated many times throughout the book of John), that mentality of doing the will of God is very much part of this.

“Who then is the faithful and wise servant, whom his lord has set over his household, to give them their food in due season? Blessed is that servant whom his lord finds doing so when he comes. Most certainly I tell you that he will set him over all that he has. But if that evil servant should say in his heart, ‘My lord is delaying his coming,’ and begins to beat his fellow servants, and eat and drink with the drunkards, the lord of that servant will come in a day when he doesn’t expect it and in an hour when he doesn’t know it, and will cut him in pieces and appoint his portion with the hypocrites. That is where the weeping and grinding of teeth will be. - Matthew 24:45-51 (WEB)

Senses in Which We Are Not Servants
Greater love has no one than this, that someone lay down his life for his friends. You are my friends, if you do whatever I command you. No longer do I call you servants, for the servant doesn’t know what his lord does. But I have called you friends, for everything that I heard from my Father, I have made known to you. - John 15:13-15 (WEB)
…But when the fullness of the time came, God sent out his Son, born to a woman, born under the law, that he might redeem those who were under the law, that we might receive the adoption as children. And because you are children, God sent out the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, “Abba, Father!” So you are no longer a bondservant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ. - Galatians 4:1-7 (WEB)
17
Now, there are some senses in which we aren’t “servants”, which are important to be aware of, as it doesn’t form the entirety of our identity.

See https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/14DvyZrAfISMC0MH8CHUXCmG5rLvbrkGyrbga3IuHJec/ for more on the “friend” thing.


Being Prepared for Suffering As Servants of Christ
“A disciple is not above his teacher, nor a servant above his lord. It is enough for the disciple that he be like his teacher, and the servant like his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebul, how much more those of his household! - Matthew 10:24-25 (WEB)
If the world hates you, you know that it has hated me before it hated you. If you were of the world, the world would love its own. But because you are not of the world, since I chose you out of the world, therefore the world hates you. Remember the word that I said to you: ‘A servant is not greater than his lord.’ If they persecuted me, they will also persecute you. If they kept my word, they will also keep yours. But they will do all these things to you for my name’s sake, because they don’t know him who sent me. - John 15:13-21 (WEB)
18
If we are bondservants, identified with Christ, we need to recognize that the world, in hating Christ, will likely persecute us.

The letters of 1-2 Peter are very much written to help Christians persevere through suffering.


Reading/Discussion
Acts 4:27-35
Acts 5:40-42

How do these disciples respond to persecution?
19
One final thing to look at tonight on the “bondservant” topic.  For time constraints, we won’t have time to read all of the surrounding context of these passages, but they are worth reading to understand the broader context.  But as a summary, both of these are instances in the early church where Christians are arrested for proclaiming the Gospel.

Some observations:
In Acts 4, the disciples, as bondservants, pray to God that they make speak God’s word with confidence and boldness - and they received that prayer answered (Acts 4:29-31).  Prior to that, they recognize Jesus’ role and their relationship to Jesus’ work.  Afterwards, we still see the church community united in living and caring for each other.
In Acts 5, the arrested disciples are physically flogged.  But after that, they rejoice in being worthy to suffer for Christ’s name, and they continue preaching the Gospel (Acts 5:41-42).

