Revelation 1:3-9
Christian Identity (Part 2)
1
This is “part 2” of our partial study of Christian identity in relation to Revelation 1.  Last week, we covered the notion of us a “bond-servants”, and today we’re continuing our study on Christian identity as expressed in Revelation 1.  Again, we won’t be covering everything about Christian identity in these slides - just surveying some key parts mentioned in Revelation 1.


Review
The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show to his servants the things that must soon take place. He made it known by sending his angel to his servant John, - Revelation 1:1 (ESV)

Written by John near the end of 1st century AD while on exile on the island of Patmos

2

Outline of the Book of Revelation
Introduction (1)
Letters to 7 Churches (2-3)
A Scene in Heaven (4)
The Scroll & the Lamb (5)
The 7 Seals (6-8)
The Sealed People of God (7)
The 7 Trumpets (8-11)
The Angel & Little Scroll (10)
The 2 Witnesses (11)
3
The Woman & the Dragon (12)
The Beasts (13)
People of God & People of the Beast (14)
The 7 Plagues (15)
The 7 Bowls of Wrath (16)
Babylon is Fallen (17-18)
A Fourfold Hallelujah (19)
Final Judgment (20)
New Creation (21-22)

Christian Identity (Revelation 1:1-9)
4
Servants
Loved
Blessed
Freed from sins
Kingdom
Priests
Brothers
Partners in patient endurance
Partners in tribulation
These are the key things I’ve pulled out of these first few verses in Revelation 1.  We covered the notion of “servants” last week, and we’ll continue studying other things on this slide today.

*Words may slightly vary by translation.  Primarily using ESV here.

(I recognize that I’m using “identity” perhaps somewhat loosely here; but it is worth noticing and exploring all of what this passage says about us as Christians; there’s also perhaps a bit more than what is listed on this slide, though we may wait to future weeks to explore those aspects)


makarios
μακάριος
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand. - Revelation 1:3 (WEB)
5
https://biblehub.com/greek/3107.htm

“happy, blessed, to be envied”

“describes a believer in enviable ("fortunate") position from receiving God's provisions (favor) – which (literally) extend ("make long, large") His grace (benefits)”
Before moving on, I also want to ask…when you (or others you know) hear the word “blessed”, what comes to mind?  How do you think one gets to be “blessed”?

https://www.amazon.com/Baker-Illustrated-Bible-Dictionary/dp/080101297X
“In the OT, the key Hebrew terms for blessing are the verb barak and the noun berakah.  When the context of their use identifies a person or a living creature as the object of blessing, the basic idea is to provide someone with special power that will ultimately enhance his or her life.”


God Has A Long History of Blessing People
And God blessed them, saying, “Be fruitful and multiply and fill the waters in the seas, and let birds multiply on the earth.” - Genesis 1:22 (ESV)
And I will make of you a great nation, and I will bless you and make your name great, so that you will be a blessing. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you I will curse, and in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed.” - Genesis 12:2-3 (ESV)
He will love you, bless you, and multiply you. He will also bless the fruit of your womb and the fruit of your ground, your grain and your wine and your oil, the increase of your herds and the young of your flock, in the land that he swore to your fathers to give you. - Deuteronomy 7:13 (ESV)
Bring the full tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. And thereby put me to the test, says the Lord of hosts, if I will not open the windows of heaven for you and pour down for you a blessing until there is no more need. - Malachi 3:10 (ESV)
6
The next thing I want to mention is that God has a long history of blessing people.  This isn’t anything new, and it is something that’s been baked into the desires of God ever since the beginning.  And blessing can indeed have “physical” components.  The above are just a few of examples the OT.  Much of Deuteronomy contains blessings and curses for the people of Israel.

https://www.biblegateway.com/quicksearch/?quicksearch=bless&version=ESV&resultspp=250


7 “Blessed” Statements in Revelation
Blessed is he who reads and those who hear the words of the prophecy, and keep the things that are written in it, for the time is at hand. - Revelation 1:3 (WEB)
…Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on…that they may rest from their labors; for their works follow with them.” - Revelation 14:13 (WEB)
“...Blessed is he who watches, and keeps his clothes, so that he doesn’t walk naked, and they see his shame.” - Revelation 16:15 (WEB)
…Blessed are those who are invited to the wedding supper of the Lamb… - Revelation 19:9 (WEB)
Blessed and holy is he who has part in the first resurrection. Over these, the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him one thousand years. - Revelation 20:6 (WEB)
“...Blessed is he who keeps the words of the prophecy of this book.” - Revelation 22:7 (WEB)
Blessed are those who do his commandments, that they may have the right to the tree of life, and may enter in by the gates into the city. - Revelation 22:14 (WEB)
7
I next want to point out that the verse we read today is just the first of 7 “blessed” statements in Revelation.

In some verses, in addition to criteria establishing those who are “blessed”, we see some reasons why they are blessed.


Reading/Discussion
Matthew 5:3-12

Why are people blessed?
8
I want to next look at the classic “beatitudes” (https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Beatitudes) passage from the beginning of Jesus’ sermon on the mount as a way to partially answer the question on the slide - why are people blessed?


Blessed
Behold, we call them blessed who endured. You have heard of the perseverance of Job, and have seen the Lord in the outcome, and how the Lord is full of compassion and mercy. - James 5:11 (WEB)
Blessed is a person who endures temptation, for when he has been approved, he will receive the crown of life, which the Lord promised to those who love him. - James 1:22 (WEB)
9
Here we see some more examples of those enduring through hard times and temptation.  We see God’s compassion, mercy, and ultimately rewards.


Blessed
not rendering evil for evil, or insult for insult; but instead blessing, knowing that you were called to this, that you may inherit a blessing. “He who would love life and see good days, let him keep his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking deceit. Let him turn away from evil and do good. Let him seek peace and pursue it. For the eyes of the Lord are on the righteous, and his ears open to their prayer;  but the face of the Lord is against those who do evil.” Now who will harm you if you become imitators of that which is good? But even if you should suffer for righteousness’ sake, you are blessed. - 1 Peter 3:9-14 (WEB)
to an incorruptible and undefiled inheritance that doesn’t fade away, reserved in Heaven for you, who by the power of God are guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. - 1 Peter 1:4-5 (WEB)
10
I want to look at a few more passages that may make certain things about our “blessed” state clearer or reiterate some of the things in the Matthew 5 passage.


Blessed
You are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying to Abraham, ‘All the families of the earth will be blessed through your offspring.’ God, having raised up his servant Jesus, sent him to you first to bless you, in turning away every one of you from your wickedness. - Acts 3:25-26 (WEB)
Even as David also pronounces blessing on the man to whom God counts righteousness apart from works, “Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man whom the Lord will by no means charge with sin.” - Romans 4:6-8 (WEB)
11
Finally, here we see blessedness in Jesus being sent to turn people away from sins, ultimately bringing forgiveness and righteousness apart from works.


agapao
ἀγαπάω
and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings of the earth. To him who loves us, and washed us from our sins by his blood— - Revelation 1:5 (WEB)
12
https://biblehub.com/greek/25.htm

“I love, wish well to, take pleasure in, long for; denotes the love of reason, esteem”
Next up is the fact that we are “loved” by Christ.  This is the particular root Greek word used in Revelation 1:5.


Loved
“For God so loved the world, that he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. - John 3:16 (ESV)
In this the love of God was made manifest among us, that God sent his only Son into the world, so that we might live through him. In this is love, not that we have loved God but that he loved us and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins. - 1 John 4:9-10 (ESV)
but God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. - Romans 5:8 (ESV)
13
Being “loved” is a pretty huge topic, so we won’t be able to cover it all tonight.  Instead, I want to focus on some of the specific ideas that may be most directly in mind related to Revelation 1:5 about how we are loved by God.


Loved
But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ—by grace you have been saved— - Ephesians 2:4-5 (ESV)
Husbands, love your wives, as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. - Ephesians 5:25-27 (ESV)
14

Loved
See what kind of love the Father has given to us, that we should be called children of God; and so we are… - 1 John 3:1 (ESV)
And have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? “My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and chastises every son whom he receives.” It is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you are left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. Besides this, we have had earthly fathers who disciplined us and we respected them. Shall we not much more be subject to the Father of spirits and live? For they disciplined us for a short time as it seemed best to them, but he disciplines us for our good, that we may share his holiness. For the moment all discipline seems painful rather than pleasant, but later it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness to those who have been trained by it. - Hebrews 12:5-11 (ESV)
15
But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born, not of blood nor of the will of the flesh nor of the will of man, but of God. - John 1:12-13 (ESV)


luo
λύω
and from Jesus Christ the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings on earth. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood - Revelation 1:5 (ESV)
16
https://biblehub.com/greek/3089.htm

“(a) I loose, untie, release, (b) met: I break, destroy, set at naught, contravene; I break up a meeting, annul.”
Next, I want to take a look at what it means that we are “freed” from our sins.

Particularly given our recent study on sin, I’m going to go ahead and ask before going into some specific Scriptures…what does it mean that we’ve been “freed” from our sins?

(We’ll take a look at some key aspects of how Christ has freed us from sins next, though note that this is a fairly big topic, so we won’t necessarily cover the full scope of it tonight)


Freedom from Sins - Destroying the Works of the Devil
and they may recover themselves out of the devil’s snare, having been taken captive by him to his will. - 2 Timothy 2:26 (WEB)
He who sins is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. To this end the Son of God was revealed: that he might destroy the works of the devil. Whoever is born of God doesn’t commit sin, because his seed remains in him, and he can’t sin, because he is born of God. - 1 John 3:8-9 (WEB)
Since then the children have shared in flesh and blood, he also himself in the same way partook of the same, that through death he might bring to nothing him who had the power of death, that is, the devil, and might deliver all of them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage. - Hebrews 2:14-15 (WEB)
17
The first angle to look at how Christ has freed us from sins is freeing us from bondage to the devil.  We see from these verses how their is an aspect of sin that is bondage to the devil - being captive to sin and do the devil’s will.  And sin, unforgiven, would lead to just punishment and death.

One of the subtle ways God does this is hinted at in the 1 John 3 passage.  By virtue of being born again of God, we have a new nature taking after God, not the devil.


Freedom from Sins - Freedom from Worldly Bondage
promising them liberty, while they themselves are bondservants of corruption; for a man is brought into bondage by whoever overcomes him. For if, after they have escaped the defilement of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ - 2 Peter 2:19-20 (WEB)
However at that time, not knowing God, you were in bondage to those who by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, why do you turn back again to the weak and miserable elemental principles, to which you desire to be in bondage all over again? - Galatians 4:8-9 (WEB)
18
These next set of verses show how there is a “worldly” bondage that we can be freed from service to the world (recall some overlap with this and the devil from our sin study - the devil in some since being a “prince” of this world).


Freedom from Sins - The Old Self Crucified
Don’t you know that when you present yourselves as servants and obey someone, you are the servants of whomever you obey; whether of sin to death, or of obedience to righteousness? But thanks be to God, that, whereas you were bondservants of sin, you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching to which you were delivered. Being made free from sin, you became bondservants of righteousness. - Romans 6:16-18 (WEB)
knowing this, that our old man was crucified with him, that the body of sin might be done away with, so that we would no longer be in bondage to sin. For he who has died has been freed from sin. - Romans 6:6-7 (WEB)
19
One key aspect of how this freedom from sin works is that our old [sinful] self died - was crucified - with Christ.


Freedom from Sins - By the Blood of Christ
In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, - Ephesians 1:7 (ESV)
he entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of the blood of goats and calves but by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. - Hebrews 9:12 (ESV)
knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. - 1 Peter 1:18-19 (ESV)
20
Finally, some ways that this freedom from sins comes by the blood of Christ.  Christ’s blood, His sacrifice, is how we have forgiveness of our sins.  Christ has paid the price to of our sins to justify us and secure our eternal redemption.

See also:
for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. - Matthew 26:28 (ESV)
whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood, to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. - Romans 3:25 (ESV)
Since, therefore, we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. - Romans 5:9 (ESV)


basileia
βασιλεία
https://biblehub.com/greek/932.htm

“kingship, sovereignty, authority, rule, especially of God, both in the world, and in the hearts of men; hence: kingdom, in the concrete sense.”

“the realm in which a king sovereignly rules”
21
and made us a kingdom, priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. - Revelation 1:6 (ESV)
I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation and the kingdom... - Revelation 1:9 (ESV)

Reading/Discussion
Genesis 1:26-28
Hebrews 2:5-8
Luke 18:18-27
John 3:3-5
John 18:33-38
Colossians 1:12-20
Luke 22:28-29
Acts 1:6-7
Romans 14:17
Isaiah 9:7
Daniel 7:13-18
22
What is the kingdom of God like?
What does it mean for us to be part of that kingdom?
What should be characteristic of our acts as part of this kingdom?
We’re going to explore the questions on the slides (and as fun as it might be…for time constraints, we’re not going to dig into all of Jesus’ parables about the kingdom of God tonight, as many of those are tackling the kingdom from a slightly different perspective than our focus tonight).  And even what verses we will cover tonight only scratch the surface.

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=9OOTudfYFvc

Kingdoms have (1) a king, (2) subjects, (3) a domain/scope/area of reign, and (4) servants/other royal officials to help carry out the duties of a king.

Commentary on John 18:33-38 (https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1giIfFnuWlTqDa-j5AMaronUeuJECLH3Mf03knbcMaMc/):
First off, what exactly is a “kingdom”?  Taking into account both the Greek (https://biblehub.com/greek/932.htm) and general knowledge, you can probably think of a kingdom as being the sphere/realm/domain where a particular king has rule or dominion.  We might jump to thinking about “kingdoms” from a physical territory perspective by default, but that’s not necessarily strictly required by the definition of the general concept.  From the discussion here, the notion of having “subjects” may also be reasonably be included in a kingdom.
So now…what is different about the kingdom that Jesus has in mind versus what Pilate might have in mind?  Looking at the text, we see that Pilate is thinking very much about a “worldly” kingdom, with the Jews who handed Jesus over as potentially being the subjects of the kingdom.  However, that’s not really what Jesus has in mind - Jesus is thinking very much of a kingdom that isn’t of “this world”.
What does being “of this world” (or not) mean?  Jesus clarifies that one thing it means is that in His kingdom, His servants wouldn’t be fighting to ensure his freedom in this kind of scenario.  Thinking more broadly, Jesus’ statement here may have a double meaning, indicating that not only is His kingdom in a “physical” sense not of this world, but it also does not get its nature from this world - it has a different set of characteristics.
Looking at the transitional language and close proximity of Jesus’ statements in verse 37 to what He just said in verse 36, there is a suggestion that Jesus’ kingdom is one of truth.  He is a King and has been born, coming into the world, to testify to the truth.  This is such an ironic contrast to what is going on against Jesus now - while in some sense their accusations are true, in general, many people involved here are trying to twist or suppress the truth.  They don’t necessarily want to confront it and thus can’t hear the truth.

Some other verses:
Jesus said to them, “Most certainly I tell you that you who have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of Man will sit on the throne of his glory, you also will sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. - Matthew 19:28 (WEB)
But if I by God’s finger cast out demons, then God’s Kingdom has come to you. - Luke 11:20 (WEB)
Being asked by the Pharisees when God’s Kingdom would come, he answered them, “God’s Kingdom doesn’t come with observation; neither will they say, ‘Look, here!’ or, ‘Look, there!’ for behold, God’s Kingdom is within you.” - Luke 17:20-21 (WEB)
Jesus summoned them, saying, “Allow the little children to come to me, and don’t hinder them, for God’s Kingdom belongs to such as these. Most certainly, I tell you, whoever doesn’t receive God’s Kingdom like a little child, he will in no way enter into it.” - Luke 18:16-18 (WEB)
For God’s Kingdom is not in word, but in power. - 1 Corinthians 4:20 (WEB)
Then the end comes, when he will deliver up the Kingdom to God, even the Father, when he will have abolished all rule and all authority and power. For he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy that will be abolished is death. For, “He put all things in subjection under his feet.” But when he says, “All things are put in subjection”, it is evident that he is excepted who subjected all things to him. When all things have been subjected to him, then the Son will also himself be subjected to him who subjected all things to him, that God may be all in all. - 1 Corinthians 15:24-28 (WEB)
Now I say this, brothers, that flesh and blood can’t inherit God’s Kingdom; neither does the perishable inherit imperishable. - 1 Corinthians 15:50 (WEB)
I command you therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who will judge the living and the dead at his appearing and his Kingdom: - 2 Timothy 4:1 (WEB)
And the Lord will deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me for his heavenly Kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. - 2 Timothy 4:18 (WEB)
Therefore, receiving a Kingdom that can’t be shaken, let’s have grace, through which we serve God acceptably, with reverence and awe, - Hebrews 12:28 (WEB)
Listen, my beloved brothers. Didn’t God choose those who are poor in this world to be rich in faith, and heirs of the Kingdom which he promised to those who love him? - James 2:5 (WEB)
For thus you will be richly supplied with the entrance into the eternal Kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. - 2 Peter 1:11 (WEB)

Saints Reigning in Revelation
He who overcomes, and he who keeps my works to the end, to him I will give authority over the nations. He will rule them with a rod of iron, shattering them like clay pots;as I also have received of my Father: - Revelation 2:26-27 (WEB)
He who overcomes, I will give to him to sit down with me on my throne, as I also overcame, and sat down with my Father on his throne. - Revelation 3:21 (WEB)
and made us kings and priests to our God, and we will reign on the earth.” - Revelation 5:10 (WEB)
I saw thrones, and they sat on them, and judgment was given to them. I saw the souls of those who had been beheaded for the testimony of Jesus…Over these, the second death has no power, but they will be priests of God and of Christ, and will reign with him one thousand years. - Revelation 20:4-6 (WEB)
There will be no night, and they need no lamp light or sun light; for the Lord God will illuminate them. They will reign forever and ever. - Revelation 22:5 (WEB)
23
Now there are several other mentions of us (Christian saints) reigning with God later in Revelation.

Don’t you know that the saints will judge the world? And if the world is judged by you, are you unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Don’t you know that we will judge angels? How much more, things that pertain to this life? - 1 Corinthians 6:2-3 (WEB)

